OPTIMAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT DESIGN FOR VARIABLE LOADINGS
 WILLIAM C.   PISANO ; JOSEPH J.   HARRINGTON ;
Abstract
 This paper is directed toward the development of overall minimum cost designs that incorporate typical daily influent variability, along with the specific performance and cost functions of the unit processes in the particular flowsheet. Consideration is given to optimal selection of capital investment in the face of randomly varying operating costs over the design period. The present analysis includes only conventional wastewater treatment processes: primary sedimentation, trickling filtration, secondary sedimentation, and sludge processing Long-term, 24-hour, flow-composited influent, effluent and intraprocess operating records for five municipal treatment plants in the eastern United States were subject to analysis of variance in order to ascertain the relative importance of seasonal, day-of-week, and other variability. For each unit process an explicit performance function in terms of the process geometry, recirculation policy, etc. is developed. The use of stepwise multiple regression techniques is presented for the confirmation or reformulation of these relationships. Primary sedimentation performance is based on an analysis of one year of daily operating records from three plants in New England. The removal of suspended solids in the primary clarifier was directly linked to sludge underflow ratio. The trickling filter performance function is computed from a data base that included over 500 biweekly and monthly averages from 28 different plants. In particular, hydraulic loading, contrary to recent reports, is important Several geometric programming codes have been developed to solve well-posed problems with many degrees of difficulty. Design rules for the integrated plant under deterministic loading are found directly. Under more general conditions a two-stage stochastic program is formulated to determine the initial investment and the optimal operating policy simultaneously. The formidable computational requirement is reduced by implementation of recent theoretical work on using simpler geometric programs to establish bounds on the larger two-stage program. 
Keywords
 