A classification approach to efficient global optimization in presence of non-computable domains
Matthieu Sacher;Régis Duvigneau;Olivier Le Maître;Mathieu Durand;Élisa Berrini;Frédéric Hauville;Jacques-André Astolfi;
Abstract
Gaussian-Process based optimization methods have become very popular in recent years for the global optimization of complex systems with high computational costs. These methods rely on the sequential construction of a statistical surrogate model, using a training set of computed objective function values, which is refined according to a prescribed infilling strategy. However, this sequential optimization procedure can stop prematurely if the objective function cannot be computed at a proposed point. Such a situation can occur when the search space encompasses design points corresponding to an unphysical configuration, an ill-posed problem, or a non-computable problem due to the limitation of numerical solvers. To avoid such a premature stop in the optimization procedure, we propose to use a classification model to learn non-computable areas and to adapt the infilling strategy accordingly. Specifically, the proposed method splits the training set into two subsets composed of computable and non-computable points. A surrogate model for the objective function is built using the training set of computable points, only, whereas a probabilistic classification model is built using the union of the computable and non-computable training sets. The classifier is then incorporated in the surrogate-based optimization procedure to avoid proposing new points in the non-computable domain while improving the classification uncertainty if needed. The method has the advantage to automatically adapt both the surrogate of the objective function and the classifier during the iterative optimization process. Therefore, non-computable areas do not need to be a priori known. The proposed method is applied to several analytical problems presenting different types of difficulty, and to the optimization of a fully nonlinear fluid-structure interaction system. The latter problem concerns the drag minimization of a flexible hydrofoil with cavitation constraints. The efficiency of the proposed method compared favorably to a reference evolutionary algorithm, except for situations where the feasible domain is a small portion of the design space.
Keywords
Global optimization  Gaussian process model  Constrained optimization  Classification  