Reliability-based optimum design of a welded stringer-stiffened steel cylindrical shell subject to axial compression and bending
Luis M. C. Simões;József Farkas;Károly Jármai;
Abstract
The economy of stiffened shells vs the unstiffened version depends on loading, type of stiffening and stiffener profile. The stiffening is economic when the shell thickness can be decreased in such a measure that the cost savings caused by this decreasing is higher than the additional cost of stiffening material and welding. The present work deals with cylindrical shell columns fixed at the bottom and free at the top subject to axial compression and horizontal force acting on the top of the column. The shell is stiffened outside with stringers welded by longitudinal fillet welds. Half rolled I-section (UB) stiffeners are used to reduce welding cost. The cost function to be minimized includes the costs of the materials, forming of shell elements into the cylindrical shape, assembly, welding and painting. The design variables are the shell thickness, number and profile of stiffeners for the stiffened shell, but only the first type of variable in the unstiffened case. Randomness is considered both in loading and material properties. A level II reliability method (first-order reliability method) is employed. Individual reliability constraints related with shell buckling, stringer panel buckling and the limitation of the horizontal displacement of the column top are considered. The overall structural reliability is obtained by using Ditlevsen's method of conditional bounding. The costs of both the stiffened and unstiffened shells designed to ensure a stipulated probability of failure will be compared with the solutions obtained for a code-based method, which employs partial safety factors. Results are given illustrating the influence of the constraint on the horizontal displacement.
Keywords
Stiffened cylindrical shells  Shell buckling  Fabrication cost  Structural optimization  Reliability-based design  