Improving differential evolution through a unified approach
Nikhil Padhye;Piyush Bhardawaj;Kalyanmoy Deb;
Abstract
Only a few attempts in past have been made in adopting a unified outlook towards different paradigms in evolutionary computation (EC). The underlying motivation of these studies was aimed at gaining better understanding of evolutionary methods, both at the level of theory as well as application, in order to design efficient evolutionary algorithms for solving wide-range of complex problems. However, the past descriptions have either been too general or sometimes abstract in issuing a clear direction for improving an evolutionary paradigm for a task-specific. This paper recollects the ‘Unified Theory of Evolutionary Computation’ from past and investigates four steps—Initialization, Selection, Generation and Replacement, which are sufficient to describe traditional forms of Evolutionary Optimization Systems such as Genetic Algorithms, Evolutionary Strategies, Evolutionary Programming, Particle Swarm Optimization and differential evolution (DE). Then, a relatively new evolutionary paradigm, DE, is chosen and studied for its performance on a set of unimodal problems. Discovering DEs inability as an efficient solver, DE is reviewed under ‘Unified Framework’ and functional requirements of each step are evaluated. Targeted towards enhancing the DE’s performance, several modifications are proposed through borrowing of operations from a benchmark solver G3-PCX. Success of this exercise is demonstrated in a step-by-step fashion via simulation results. The Unified Approach is highly helpful in understanding the role and re-modeling of DE steps in order to efficiently solve unimodal problems. In an avalanching-age of new methods in EC, this study outlines a direction for advancing EC methods by undertaking a collective outlook and an approach of concept-sharing.
Keywords
Evolutionary computation  Optimization  Genetic algorithms  Differential evolution  Computational complexity  