On the convergence of general regularization and smoothing schemes for mathematical programs with complementarity constraints
 Xinmin   Hu ;
Abstract
 We extend the convergence analysis of a smoothing method [M. Fukushima and J.-S. Pang (2000). Convergence of a smoothing continuation method for mathematical programs with complementarity constraints. In: M. Théra and R. Tichatschke (Eds.), Ill-posed Variational Problems and Regularization Techniques, pp. 99–110. Springer, Berlin/Heidelberg.] to a general class of smoothing functions and show that a weak second-order necessary optimality condition holds at the limit point of a sequence of stationary points found by the smoothing method. We also show that convergence and stability results in [S. Scholtes (2001). Convergence properties of a regularization scheme for mathematical programs with complementarity constraints. SIAM J. Optim., 11, 918–936.] hold for a relaxation problem suggested by Scholtes [S. Scholtes (2003). Private communications.] using a class of smoothing functions. In addition, the relationship between two technical, yet critical, concepts in [M. Fukushima and J.-S. Pang (2000). Convergence of a smoothing continuation method for mathematical programs with complementarity constraints. In: M. Théra and R. Tichatschke (Eds.), Ill-posed Variational Problems and Regularization Techniques, pp. 99–110. Springer, Berlin/Heidelberg; S. Scholtes (2001). Convergence properties of a regularization scheme for mathematical programs with complementarity constraints. SIAM J. Optim., 11, 918–936.] for the convergence analysis of the smoothing and regularization methods is discussed and a counter-example is provided to show that the stability result in [S. Scholtes (2001). Convergence properties of a regularization scheme for mathematical programs with complementarity constraints. SIAM J. Optim., 11, 918–936.] cannot be extended to a weaker regularization. 
Keywords
Complementarity constraints, Stationary points, Linear independence constraint qualification, Nonlinear programming, Mathematics Subject Classifications 2000: 68W40, 90C33 