Robust optimization of constrained mechanical system with joint clearance and random parameters using multi-objective particle swarm optimization
Dongyang Sun;Yan Shi;Baoqiang Zhang;
Abstract
Joint clearance and uncertainty are inevitable in mechanical systems due to design tolerance, abrasion, manufacture error, assembly error and imperfections. In this study, kinematic analysis and robust optimization of constrained mechanical systems with joint clearance and random parameters were performed. Joint clearance was modeled by Lankarani-Nikravesh contact force model, and probability space was applied for characterizing uncertain parameters. A kinematic analysis method based on Baumgarte approach and confidence region method was presented to predict kinematic error of the mechanical system. Slider-crank mechanism, an illustrative example was presented to show the influence of clearance and uncertainty on the kinematic accuracy. Then, a novel multi-objective robust optimization methodology was presented for kinematic accuracy robust optimization design of the constrained mechanical system. In this approach, a multi-objective robust optimization model derived from 95% confidence region is constructed to reduce the effects of clearance and parameter uncertainty on 95% confidence region of kinematic error. The robust optimization model is a double-loop process. A multi-objective robust optimization strategy, combing Kriging surrogate model, multi-objective particle swarm optimization, confidence region and Monte Carlo methods, was proposed to search the design variables for minimizing the optimization objectives derived from confidence region while balancing computational accuracy and efficiency of the optimization process. The optimal results of the slider-crank mechanism demonstrated the validity and feasibility of the proposed robust optimization method.
Keywords
Robust optimization  Kinematic analysis  Kriging surrogate model  Multi-objective particle swarm optimization  Joint clearance  