Multidisciplinary modeling and surrogate assisted optimization for satellite constellation systems
Renhe Shi;Li Liu;Teng Long;Yufei Wu;G. Gary Wang;
Abstract
Satellite constellation system design is a challenging and complicated multidisciplinary design optimization (MDO) problem involving a number of computation-intensive multidisciplinary analysis models. In this paper, the MDO problem of a constellation system consisting of small observation satellites is investigated to simultaneously achieve the preliminary design of constellation configuration and the satellite subsystems. The constellation is established based on Walker-δ configuration considering the coverage performance. Coupled with the constellation configuration, several disciplines including payload, power, thermal control, and structure are taken into account for satellite subsystems design subject to various constraints (i.e., ground resolution, power usage, natural frequencies, etc.). Considering the mixed-integer and time-consuming behavior of satellite constellation system MDO problem, a novel sequential radial basis function (RBF) method using the support vector machine (SVM) for discrete-continuous mixed variables notated as SRBF-SVM-DC is proposed. In this method, a discrete-continuous variable sampling method is utilized to handle the discrete variables, i.e., the number of orbit planes and number of satellites, in the satellite constellation system MDO problem. RBF surrogates are constructed and gradually refined to represent the time-consuming simulations during optimization, which can efficiently lead the search to the optimum. Finally, the proposed SRBF-SVM-DC utilized to solve the satellite constellation system MDO problem is compared with a conventional integer coding based genetic algorithm (ICGA). The results show that SRBF-SVM-DC significantly decreases the system mass by about 28.63% subject to all the constraints, which greatly reduces the cost of the satellite constellation system. Moreover, the computational budget of SRBF-SVM-DC is saved by over 85% compared with ICGA, which demonstrates the effectiveness and practicality of the proposed surrogate assisted optimization approach for satellite constellation system design.
Keywords
Satellite constellation system  Surrogate-based analysis and optimization  Multidisciplinary design optimization  Mix-integer optimization  