Variation-aware clock network buffer sizing using robust multi-objective optimization
Amin Farshidi;Logan Rakai;Laleh Behjat;David Westwick;
Abstract
Many engineering optimization problems include unavoidable uncertainties in parameters or variables. Ignoring such uncertainties when solving the optimization problems may lead to inferior solutions that may even violate problem constraints. Another challenge in most engineering optimization problems is having different conflicting objectives that cannot be minimized simultaneously. Finding a balanced trade-off between these objectives is a complex and time-consuming task. In this paper, an optimization framework is proposed to address both of these challenges. First, we exploit a self-calibrating multi-objective framework to achieve a balanced trade-off between the conflicting objectives. Then, we develop the robust counterpart of the uncertainty-aware self-calibrating multi-objective optimization framework. The significance of this framework is that it does not need any manual tuning by the designer. We also develop a mathematical demonstration of the objective scale invariance property of the proposed framework. The engineering problem considered in this paper to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework is a popular sizing problem in digital integrated circuit design. However, the proposed framework can be applied to any uncertain multi-objective optimization problem that can be formulated in the geometric programming format. We propose to consider variations in the sizes of circuit elements during the optimization process by employing ellipsoidal uncertainty model. For validation, several industrial clock networks are sized by the proposed framework. The results show a significant reduction in one objective (power, on average 38 %) as well as significant increase in the robustness of solutions to the variations. This is achieved with no significant degradation in the other objective (timing metrics of the circuit) or reduction in its standard deviation which demonstrates a more robust solution.
Keywords
Robust optimization  Multi-objective optimization  Geometric programming  Clock network  