Multi-objective robust optimization of foam-filled tapered multi-cell thin-walled structures
Hanfeng Yin;Hongbing Fang;Youye Xiao;Guilin Wen;Qixiang Qing;
Abstract
Foam-filled multi-cell thin-walled structure has recently gained attentions for its excellent energy absorption capacity. Tapered thin-walled structure is less likely to fail by global buckling, and is more capable of bearing oblique impact loads. Thus, foam-filled tapered multi-cell thin-walled structure (FTMTS) may be an extremely excellent energy absorber candidate in future vehicle body. This paper focuses on the crashworthiness of four kinds of axisymmetric FTMTSs with different cell numbers. According to our study, we find that FTMTSs have very excellent energy absorption capacity as well as strong capacity of avoiding global buckling. According to our investigation, it was found that the crashworthiness of FTMTS was largely affected by design parameters such as geometric sizes and foam density. In order to find optimal designs of FTMTSs, it is very essential to carry out crashworthiness optimization for FTMTSs. However, the conventional deterministic design is likely to become less meaningful or even unacceptable when considering the uncertainties of design parameters due to the manufacturing or installation deviation. In order to overcome this drawback, a multi-objective robust optimization procedure which employs Kriging metamodels, multi-objective particle swarm optimization (MOPSO) algorithm, “k-sigma” robust design theory and Monte Carlo simulation (MCS) was developed. The comparison of the Pareto fronts obtained by the developed multi-objective robust optimization procedure and the traditional multi-objective deterministic optimization algorithm shows that the robust optimization result is more reliable than the deterministic optimization result. The robust optimal design of FTMTS not only has very excellent crashworthiness but also has very high reliability when considering the uncertainty of design parameters.
Keywords
Multi-objective robust optimization  Monte Carlo simulation  Crashworthiness  Thin-walled structure  Foam-filled structure  Tapered energy absorber  