Comparison of global and local response surface techniques in reliability-based optimization of composite structures
M. Rais-Rohani;M.N. Singh ;
Abstract
This paper discusses the development and application of two alternative strategies, in the form of global and sequential local response surface (RS) techniques, for the solution of reliability-based optimization (RBO) problems. The problem of a thin-walled composite circular cylinder under axial buckling instability is used as a demonstrative example. In this case, the global technique uses a single second-order RS model to estimate the axial buckling load over the entire feasible design space (FDS), whereas the local technique uses multiple first-order RS models, with each applied to a small subregion of the FDS. Alternative methods for the calculation of unknown coefficients in each RS model are explored prior to the solution of the optimization problem. The example RBO problem is formulated as a function of 23 uncorrelated random variables that include material properties, the thickness and orientation angle of each ply, the diameter and length of the cylinder, as well as the applied load. The mean values of the 8 ply thicknesses are treated as independent design variables. While the coefficients of variation of all random variables are held fixed, the standard deviations of the ply thicknesses can vary during the optimization process as a result of changes in the design variables. The structural reliability analysis is based on the first-order reliability method with the reliability index treated as the design constraint. In addition to the probabilistic sensitivity analysis of the reliability index, the results of the RBO problem are presented for different combinations of cylinder length and diameter and laminate ply patterns. The two strategies are found to produce similar results in terms of accuracy, with the sequential local RS technique having a considerably better computational efficiency. 
Keywords
reliability-based optimization  response surface technique  first-order reliability method  axial buckling of cylindrical shells   