Optimal design of sandwich and laminated composite plates based on the planning of experiments
R. Rikards;A. Chate;
Abstract
Optimal design problems of sandwich plates with soft core and laminated composite face layers, and multilayered composite plates are investigated. The optimal design problems are solved by using the method of the planning of experiments. The optimization procedure is divided into the following stages: choice of control parameters and establishment of the domain of search, elaboration of plans of experiment for the chosen number of reference points, execution of the experiment, determination of simple mathematical models from the experimental data, design of the structure on the basis of the mathematical models discovered, and finally verification experiments at the point of the optimal solution. Vibration and damping analysis is performed by using a sandwich plate finite elements based on a broken line model. Damping properties of the core and face layers of the plate are taken into account in the optimal design. Modal loss factors are computed using the method of complex eigenvalues or the energy method. Frequencies and modal loss factors of the plate are constraints in the optimal design problem. There are also constraints on geometrical parameters and the bending stiffness of the plate. The mass of the plate is the objective function. Design parameters are the thickness of the plate layers. In the points of experiments computer simulation using FEM is carried out. Using this information, simple mathematical models for frequencies and modal loss factors for the plate are determined. These simple mathematical functions are used as constraints in the nonlinear programming problem, which is solved by random search and the penalty function method. Numerical examples of the optimal design of clamped sandwich and simply supported laminated composite plates are presented. A significant improvement of damping properties of a sandwich plate is observed in comparison with a simple plate of equal natural frequencies.
Keywords
Optimal Design  Nonlinear Programming  Composite Plate  Face Layer  Soft Core  