New approaches to multi-objective optimization
Fabrizio Grandoni;R. Ravi;Mohit Singh;Rico Zenklusen;
Abstract
A natural way to deal with multiple, partially conflicting objectives is turning all the objectives but one into budget constraints. Many classical optimization problems, such as maximum spanning tree and forest, shortest path, maximum weight (perfect) matching, maximum weight independent set (basis) in a matroid or in the intersection of two matroids, become NP-hard even with one budget constraint. Still, for most of these problems efficient deterministic and randomized approximation schemes are known. Not much is known however about the case of two or more budgets: filling this gap, at least partially, is the main goal of this paper. In more detail, we obtain the following main results: Using iterative rounding for the first time in multi-objective optimization, we obtain multi-criteria PTASs (which slightly violate the budget constraints) for spanning tree, matroid basis, and bipartite matching with \(k=O(1)\) budget constraints. We present a simple mechanism to transform multi-criteria approximation schemes into pure approximation schemes for problems whose feasible solutions define an independence system. This gives improved algorithms for several problems. In particular, this mechanism can be applied to the above bipartite matching algorithm, hence obtaining a pure PTAS. We show that points in low-dimensional faces of any matroid polytope are almost integral, an interesting result on its own. This gives a deterministic approximation scheme for \(k\)-budgeted matroid independent set. We present a deterministic approximation scheme for \(k\)-budgeted matching (in general graphs), where \(k=O(1)\). Interestingly, to show that our procedure works, we rely on a non-constructive result by Stromquist and Woodall, which is based on the Ham Sandwich Theorem.
Keywords
Multi-objective optimization  Multi-budgeted optimization   Approximation algorithms  Combinatorial optimization  90C29  90C27  