Robust optimization of structural dynamic characteristics based on adaptive Kriging model and CNSGA
Jin Cheng;Zhenyu Liu;Zhenyu Wu;Xiaogang Li;Jianrong Tan;
Abstract
Dynamic characteristics greatly influence the comprehensive performance of a structure. But they are rarely included as objectives in traditional robust optimization of structures. In this study, a robust optimization model including both means and standard deviations of dynamic characteristic indices in the objective and constraint functions is constructed for improving the structural dynamic characteristics and reducing their fluctuations under uncertainty. Adaptive Kriging models are employed for the efficient computation of dynamic characteristics. An intelligent resampling technology is proposed to save computational costs and accelerate convergence of Kriging models, which takes full advantage of the test points for precision verification, the sample points within the local region of the biggest relative maximum absolute error and the near-optimal point to improve the global and local precision of Krigings. The high efficiency of proposed intelligent resampling technology is demonstrated by a numerical example. Finally, an efficient algorithm integrating adaptive Kriging models, Monte Carlo (MC) method, constrained non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm (CNSGA) is proposed to solve the robust optimization model of structural dynamic characteristics. Kriging models are interfaced with MC method to efficiently compute the fitness of individuals during CNSGA. The implementation of proposed methodology is explained in detail and highlighted by the robust optimization of a cone ring fixture with lots of circumferentially distributed holes in a large turbo generator aimed at moving its natural frequencies away from the exciting one. The comparison of the optimized design with the initial one demonstrates that the proposed methodology is feasible and applicable in engineering practice.
Keywords
Robust optimization  Structural dynamic characteristics  Adaptive Kriging model  Intelligent resampling technology  Monte Carlo method  Constrained non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm  