Block Stochastic Gradient Iteration for Convex and Nonconvex Optimization
Yangyang  Xu and Wotao  Yin;
Abstract
The stochastic gradient (SG) method can quickly solve a problem with a large number of components in the objective, or a stochastic optimization problem, to a moderate accuracy. The block coordinate descent/update (BCD) method, on the other hand, can quickly solve  problems with multiple (blocks of) variables. This paper introduces a method that combines the  great features of SG and BCD for  problems with many components in the objective and with multiple (blocks of) variables. This paper proposes  a block SG (BSG) method for both convex and nonconvex programs.  BSG generalizes SG by   updating all the blocks of variables  in the Gauss--Seidel type (updating the current block depends on the previously updated block), in either a fixed or randomly shuffled order. Although BSG has slightly more work at each iteration, it typically  outperforms  SG because of BSG's Gauss--Seidel updates and larger step sizes, the latter of which are determined by the smaller per-block Lipschitz constants. The convergence of BSG  is established  for both convex and nonconvex cases. In the convex case, BSG has the same order of convergence rate as   SG. In the nonconvex case, its convergence is established in terms of the expected violation of a first-order optimality condition. In both cases our analysis is nontrivial since the typical unbiasedness assumption no longer holds. BSG is numerically evaluated on the following problems: stochastic least squares and logistic regression, which are convex, and low-rank tensor recovery and bilinear logistic regression, which are nonconvex. On the convex problems, BSG  performed   significantly better than SG. On the nonconvex problems, BSG   significantly outperformed the deterministic BCD method because the latter tends to stagnate early near  local minimizers.  Overall, BSG inherits the benefits of both SG approximation and block coordinate updates and is especially useful for solving large-scale nonconvex problems.
Keywords
stochastic gradient, block coordinate update, convex optimization, nonconvex optimization, nonsmooth optimization, 49M05, 65B99, 65K10, 90C26, 90C30, 