CONORBIT: constrained optimization by radial basis function interpolation in trust regions†† The submitted manuscript has been created by UChicago Argonne, LLC, Operator of Argonne National Laboratory (‘Argonne’). Argonne, a U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science laboratory, is operated under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357. The U.S. Government retains for itself, and others acting on its behalf, a paid-up, nonexclusive, irrevocable worldwide license in said article to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by or on behalf of the Government.View all notes
Rommel G. Regis;Stefan M. Wild;
Abstract
This paper presents CONORBIT (CONstrained Optimization by Radial Basis function Interpolation in Trust regions), a derivative-free algorithm for constrained black-box optimization where the objective and constraint functions are computationally expensive. CONORBIT employs a trust-region framework that uses interpolating radial basis function (RBF) models for the objective and constraint functions, and is an extension of the ORBIT algorithm [S.M. Wild, R.G. Regis and C.A. Shoemaker, ORBIT: optimization by radial basis function interpolation in trust-regions, SIAM J. Sci. Comput. 30 (2008), pp. 3197–3219]. It uses a small margin for the RBF constraint models to facilitate the generation of feasible iterates, and extensive numerical tests confirm that such a margin is helpful in improving performance. CONORBIT is compared with other algorithms on 27 test problems, a chemical process optimization problem, and an automotive application. Numerical results show that CONORBIT performs better than COBYLA (Powell 1994), a sequential penalty derivative-free method, an augmented Lagrangian method, a direct search method, and another RBF-based algorithm on the test problems and on the automotive application.
Keywords
constrained optimization, black-box optimization, computationally expensive function, simulation-based optimization, trust region, fully linear model, radial basis function interpolationAMS Subject Classifications: 65K05, 90C56 