A Discrete Lagrangian-Based Global-Search Method for Solving Satisfiability Problems
Yi Shang;Benjamin W. Wah;
Abstract
Satisfiability is a class of NP-complete problems that model a wide range of real-world applications. These problems are difficult to solve because they have many local minima in their search space, often trapping greedy search methods that utilize some form of descent. In this paper, we propose a new discrete Lagrange-multiplier-based global-search method (DLM) for solving satisfiability problems. We derive new approaches for applying Lagrangian methods in discrete space, we show that an equilibrium is reached when a feasible assignment to the original problem is found and present heuristic algorithms to look for equilibrium points. Our method and analysis provides a theoretical foundation and generalization of local search schemes that optimize the objective alone and penalty-based schemes that optimize the constraints alone. In contrast to local search methods that restart from a new starting point when a search reaches a local trap, the Lagrange multipliers in DLM provide a force to lead the search out of a local minimum and move it in the direction provided by the Lagrange multipliers. In contrast to penalty-based schemes that rely only on the weights of violated constraints to escape from local minima, DLM also uses the value of an objective function (in this case the number of violated constraints) to provide further guidance. The dynamic shift in emphasis between the objective and the constraints, depending on their relative values, is the key of Lagrangian methods. One of the major advantages of DLM is that it has very few algorithmic parameters to be tuned by users. Besides the search procedure can be made deterministic and the results reproducible. We demonstrate our method by applying it to solve an extensive set of benchmark problems archived in DIMACS of Rutgers University. DLM often performs better than the best existing methods and can achieve an order-of-magnitude speed-up for some problems.
Keywords
Discrete Lagrangian methods  global optimization  satisfiability  NP-completeness  