Novel orthogonal simulated annealing with fractional factorial analysis to solve global optimization problems
 Jenn-long   Liu ;
Abstract
 A classical simulated annealing (SA) method is a generic probabilistic and heuristic approach to solving global optimization problems. It uses a stochastic process based on probability, rather than a deterministic procedure, to seek the minima or maxima in the solution space. Although the classical SA method can find the optimal solution to most linear and nonlinear optimization problems, the algorithm always requires numerous numerical iterations to yield a good solution. The method also usually fails to achieve optimal solutions to large parameter optimization problems. This study incorporates well-known fractional factorial analysis, which involves several factorial experiments based on orthogonal tables to extract intelligently the best combination of factors, with the classical SA to enhance the numerical convergence and optimal solution. The novel combination of the classical SA and fractional factorial analysis is termed the orthogonal SA herein. This study also introduces a dynamic penalty function to handle constrained optimization problems. The performance of the proposed orthogonal SA method is evaluated by computing several representative global optimization problems such as multi-modal functions, noise-corrupted data fitting, nonlinear dynamic control, and large parameter optimization problems. The numerical results show that the proposed orthogonal SA method markedly outperforms the classical SA in solving global optimization problems with linear or nonlinear objective functions. Additionally, this study addressed two widely used nonlinear functions, proposed by Keane and Himmelblau to examine the effectiveness of the orthogonal SA method and the presented penalty function when applied to the constrained problems. Moreover, the orthogonal SA method is applied to two engineering optimization design problems, including the designs of a welded beam and a coil compression spring, to evaluate the capacity of the method for practical engineering design. The computational results show that the proposed orthogonal SA method is effective in determining the optimal design variables and the value of objective function. 
Keywords
Simulated annealing, Fractional factorial analysis, Global optimization 