Damage tolerance based design optimisation of a fuel flow vent hole in an aircraft structure
R. Das;R. Jones;
Abstract
This paper investigates the design optimisation of a fuel flow vent hole (FFVH) located in the wing pivot fitting (WPF) of an F-111 aircraft assuming a damage tolerance design philosophy. The design of the vent hole shape is undertaken considering the basic durability based design objectives of stress, residual (fracture) strength, and fatigue life. Initially, a stress based optimised shape is determined. Damage tolerance based design optimisation is then undertaken to determine the shape of the cutout so as to maximise its residual strength and fatigue life. For stress optimisation, the problem is analysed using the gradient-less biological algorithm and the gradient-based nonlinear programming methods. The optimum designs predicted by the two fundamentally different optimisation algorithms agree well. The optimum shapes of the vent hole are subsequently determined considering residual strength and fatigue life as the distinct design objectives in the presence of numerous 3D cracks located along the vent hole boundary. A number of crack cases are considered to investigate how the crack size affects the optimal shapes. A semi-analytical method is employed for computation of the stress intensity factors (SIF), and an analytical crack closure model is subsequently used to evaluate the fatigue life. The 3D biological algorithm is used for designing the cutout profiles that optimise residual strength and fatigue life of the component. An improved residual strength/fatigue life (depending on the optimisation objective) is achieved for the optimal designs. The variability in SIF/fatigue life around the cutout boundary is reduced, thereby making the shape more evenly fracture/fatigue critical. The vent hole shapes optimised for stress, residual strength, and fatigue life are different from each other for a given nature and size of the flaws. This emphasises the need to consider residual strength and/or fatigue life as the explicit design objective. The durability based optimal vent hole shapes depend on the initial and final crack sizes. It is also shown that a damage tolerance optimisation additionally produces a reduced weight WPF component, which is highly desirable for aerospace industries. The design space near the ‘optimal’ region is found to be flat. This allows us to achieve a considerable enhancement in fatigue performance without precisely identifying the local/global optimum solution, and also enables us to select a reduced weight ‘near optimal’ design rather than the precise optimal shape.
Keywords
Shape optimisation  Damage tolerance  Fatigue life  Residual strength  Stress intensity factor  Biological algorithm  Nonlinear programming method  Finite element analysis  Industrial application  