Maximization of Generalized Convex Functionals in Locally Convex Spaces
J. Haberl;
Abstract
The major part of the investigation is related to the problem of maximizing an upper semicontinuous quasiconvex functional f over a compact (possibly nonconvex) subset K of a real Hausdorff locally convex space E. A theorem by Bereanu (Ref. 1) says that the condition “f is quasiconvex (quasiconcave) on K” is sufficient for the existence of maximum (minimum) point of f over K among the extreme points of K. But, as we prove by a counterexample, this is not true in general. On the further condition that the convex hull of the set of extreme points of K is closed, we show that it is sufficient to claim that f is “induced-quasiconvex” on K to achieve an equivalent conclusion. This new concept of quasiconvexity, which we define by requiring that each lower-level set of f can be represented as the intersection of K with some convex set, is suitable for functionals with a nonconvex domain. Under essentially the same conditions, we prove that an induced-quasiconvex functional f is directionally monotone in the sense that, for each y ∈ K, the functional f is increasing along a line segment starting at y and running to some extreme point of K. In order to guarantee the existence of maximum points on the relative boundary r ∂ K of K, it suffices to make weaker demands on the function f and the space E. By introducing a weaker kind of directional monotonicity, we are able to obtain the following result: If f is i.s.d.-increasing i.e., for each y y ∈ K, there is a half-line emanating from y such that f is increasing along this half-line, then f attains its maximum at r∂K , even if E is a topological linear Hausdorff space (infinite-dimensional and not necessarily locally convex). We state further a practical method of proving i.s.d.-monotonicity for functions in finite-dimensional spaces and we discuss also some aspects of classification.
Keywords
Generalized convexity  quasiconvex maximization  quasiconvex functionals with nonconvex domain  directional monotonicity  global optimization  topological vector spaces  