Furtivity and Masking Problems in Time-Dependent Electromagnetic Obstacle Scattering
L. Fatone;M. C. Recchioni;F. Zirilli;
Abstract
In this paper, we consider furtivity and masking problems in time-dependent three-dimensional electromagnetic obstacle scattering. That is, we propose a criterion based on a merit function to minimize or to mask the electromagnetic field scattered by a bounded obstacle when hit by an incoming electromagnetic field and, with respect to this criterion, we drive the optimal strategy. These problems are natural generalizations to the context of electromagnetic scattering of the furtivity problem in time-dependent acoustic obstacle scattering presented in Ref. 1. We propose mathematical models of the furtivity and masking time-dependent three-dimensional electromagnetic scattering problems that consist in optimal control problems for systems of partial differential equations derived from the Maxwell equations. These control problems are approached using the Pontryagin maximum principle. We formulate the first-order optimality conditions for the control problems considered as exterior problems defined outside the obstacle for systems of partial differential equations. Moreover, the first-order optimality conditions derived are solved numerically with a highly parallelizable numerical method based on a perturbative series of the type considered in Refs. 2–3. Finally, we assess and validate the mathematical models and the numerical method proposed analyzing the numerical results obtained with a parallel implementation of the numerical method in several experiments on test problems. Impressive speedup factors are obtained executing the algorithms on a parallel machine when the number of processors used in the computation ranges between 1 and 100. Some virtual reality applications and some animations relative to the numerical experiments can be found in the website http://www.econ.unian.it/recchioni/w10/.
Keywords
Time-dependent electromagnetic obstacle scattering  Maxwell equations  optimal control  furtivity problems  masking problems  