Sensitivity Analysis of Variational Inequalities via Twice Epi-differentiability and Proto-differentiability of the Proximity Operator
Samir  Adly and Loïc  Bourdin;
Abstract
In this paper we investigate the sensitivity analysis of parameterized nonlinear variational inequalities of second kind in a Hilbert space. The challenge of the present work is to take into account a perturbation on all the data of the problem. This requires special adjustments in the definitions of the generalized first- and second-order differentiations of the involved operators and functions. Precisely, we extend the notions, introduced and thoroughly studied by Rockafellar, of twice epi-differentiability and proto-differentiability to the case of a parameterized lower semi-continuous convex function and its subdifferential respectively. The link between these two notions is tied to Attouch's theorem and to the new concept, introduced in this paper, of convergent supporting hyperplanes. The previous tools allow us to derive an exact formula of the proto-derivative of the generalized proximity operator associated with a parameterized variational inequality, and deduce the differentiability of the associated solution with respect to the parameter. Furthermore, the derivative is shown to be the solution of a new variational inequality involving semi- and second epi-derivatives of the data. An application is given to parameterized convex optimization problems involving the sum of two convex functions (one of them being smooth). The case of smooth convex optimization problems with inequality constraints is discussed in detail. This approach seems to be new in the literature and opens several perspectives on theoretical and computational issues in nonlinear optimization.
Keywords
sensitivity analysis, variational inequalities, twice epi-differentiability, semi-differentiability, proto-differentiability, proximity operator, Attouch's theorem, constrained convex optimization, 49J53, 49J52, 58C20, 49A50, 58C06, 65K10, 