Uncertainty quantification in reliability estimation with limit state surrogates
Saideep Nannapaneni;Zhen Hu;Sankaran Mahadevan;
Abstract
Model-based reliability analysis is affected by different types of epistemic uncertainty, due to inadequate data and modeling errors. When the physics-based simulation model is computationally expensive, a surrogate has often been used in reliability analysis, introducing additional uncertainty due to the surrogate. This paper proposes a framework to include statistical uncertainty and model uncertainty in surrogate-based reliability analysis. Two types of surrogates have been considered: (1) general-purpose surrogate models that compute the system model output over the desired ranges of the random variables; and (2) limit-state surrogates. A unified approach to connect the model calibration analysis using the Kennedy and O’Hagan (KOH) framework to the construction of limit state surrogate and to estimating the uncertainty in reliability analysis is developed. The Gaussian Process (GP) general-purpose surrogate of the physics-based simulation model obtained from the KOH calibration analysis is further refined at the limit state (local refinement) to construct the limit state surrogate, which is used for reliability analysis. An efficient single-loop sampling approach using the probability integral transform is used for sampling the input variables with statistical uncertainty. The variability in the GP prediction (surrogate uncertainty) is included in reliability analysis through correlated sampling of the model predictions at different inputs. The Monte Carlo sampling (MCS) error, which represents the error due to limited Monte Carlo samples, is quantified by constructing a probability density function. All the different sources of epistemic uncertainty are quantified and aggregated to estimate the uncertainty in the reliability analysis. Two examples are used to demonstrate the proposed techniques.
Keywords
Reliability  Epistemic  Surrogate  Gaussian process  Uncertainty Quantification  