Robust topology optimization for dynamic compliance minimization under uncertain harmonic excitations with inhomogeneous eigenvalue analysis
Xiaopeng Zhang;Zhan Kang;Wenbo Zhang;
Abstract
Variability of load magnitude/direction is a most significant source of uncertainties in practical engineering. This paper investigates robust topology optimization of structures subjected to uncertain dynamic excitations. The unknown-but-bounded dynamic loads/accelerations are described with the non-probabilistic ellipsoid convex model. The aim of the optimization problem is to minimize the absolute dynamic compliance for the worst-case loading condition. For this purpose, a generalized compliance matrix is defined to construct the objective function. To find the optimal structural layout under uncertain dynamic excitations, we first formulate the robust topology optimization problem into a nested double-loop one. Here, the inner-loop aims to seek the worst-case combination of the excitations (which depends on the current design, and is usually to be found by a global optimization algorithm), and the outer-loop optimizes the structural topology under the found worst-case excitation. To tackle the inherent difficulties associated with such an originally nested formulation, we convert the inner-loop into an inhomogeneous eigenvalue problem using the optimality condition. Thus the double-loop problem is reformulated into an equivalent single-loop one. This formulation ensures that the strict-sense worst-case combination of the uncertain excitations for each intermediate design be located without resorting to a time-consuming global search algorithm. The sensitivity analysis of the worst-case objective function value is derived with the adjoint variable method, and then the optimization problem is solved by a gradient-based mathematical programming method. Numerical examples are presented to illustrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed framework.
Keywords
Robust topology optimization  Vibration  Load uncertainty  Dynamic compliance  Convex model  Inhomogeneous eigenvalue  