A Pseudo-Global Optimization Approach with Application to the Design of Containerships
Hanif D. Sherali;Vikram Ganesan;
Abstract
In this paper, we present a new class of pseudo-global optimization procedures for solving formidable optimization problems in which the objective and/or constraints might be analytically complex and expensive to evaluate, or available only as black-box functions. The proposed approach employs a sequence of polynomial programming approximations that are constructed using the Response Surface Methodology (RSM), and embeds these within a branch-and-bound framework in concert with a suitable global optimization technique. The lower bounds constructed in this process might only be heuristic in nature, and hence, this is called a pseudo-global optimization approach. We develop two such procedures, each employing two alternative branching techniques, and apply these methods to the problem of designing containerships. The model involves five design variables given by the design draft, the depth at side, the speed, the overall length, and the maximum beam. The constraints imposed enforce the balance between the weight and the displacement, a required acceptable length to depth ratio, a restriction on the metacentric height to ensure that the design satisfies the Coast Guard wind heel criterion, a minimum freeboard level as governed by the code of federal regulations (46 CFR 42), and a lower bound on the rolling period to ensure sea-worthiness. The objective function seeks to minimize the required freight rate that is induced by the design in order to recover capital and operating costs, expressed in dollars per metric ton per nautical mile. The model formulation also accommodates various practical issues in improving the representation of the foregoing considerations, and turns out to be highly nonlinear and nonconvex. A practical test case is solved using the proposed methodology, and the results obtained are compared with those derived using a contemporary commercialized design optimization tool. The prescribed solution yields an improved design that translates to an estimated increase in profits of about $18.45 million, and an estimated 27% increase in the return on investment, over the life of the ship.
Keywords
Pseudo-Global Optimization  Response surface methodology  Containership design  Branch-and-reduce optimization navigator (BARON)  Reformulation-linearization technique (RLT)  