Convergence properties of the inexact Lin-Fukushima relaxation method for mathematical programs with complementarity constraints
Christian Kanzow;Alexandra Schwartz;
Abstract
Mathematical programs with equilibrium (or complementarity) constraints, MPECs for short, form a difficult class of optimization problems. The feasible set of MPECs is described by standard equality and inequality constraints as well as additional complementarity constraints that are used to model equilibrium conditions in different applications. But these complementarity constraints imply that MPECs violate most of the standard constraint qualifications. Therefore, more specialized algorithms are typically applied to MPECs that take into account the particular structure of the complementarity constraints. One popular class of these specialized algorithms are the relaxation (or regularization) methods. They replace the MPEC by a sequence of nonlinear programs NLP(t) depending on a parameter t, then compute a KKT-point of each NLP(t), and try to get a suitable stationary point of the original MPEC in the limit t→0. For most relaxation methods, one can show that a C-stationary point is obtained in this way, a few others even get M-stationary points, which is a stronger property. So far, however, these results have been obtained under the assumption that one is able to compute exact KKT-points of each NLP(t). But this assumption is not implementable, hence a natural question is: What kind of stationarity do we get if we only compute approximate KKT-points? It turns out that most relaxation methods only get a weakly stationary point under this assumption, while in this paper, we show that the smooth relaxation method by Lin and Fukushima (Ann. Oper. Res. 133:63–84, 2005) still yields a C-stationary point, i.e. the inexact version of this relaxation scheme has the same convergence properties as the exact counterpart.
Keywords
Mathematical programs with complementarity constraints  Mathematical programs with equilibrium constraints  Global convergence  KKT-points  Stationary points  C-stationarity  Weak stationarity  Inexact relaxation methods  Inexact regularization methods  