Some Remarks on the Controllability of Sampled-Data Systems
 Joseph J.  Yamé ;
Abstract
This paper raises the question of controllability (or more                     precisely, reachability) of sampled-data systems, i.e., systems                     composed of a continuous-time plant controlled by a digital                     controller. The question is formulated from the                     continuous-time perspective, and the study is carried out in a                     functional analytic framework. The novelty of the study lies in the                     infinite-dimensionality of the underlying physical state signals                     which comes from the fact that the plant actually evolves over a                     temporal continuum. Different concepts of controllability                     related directly to the                      continuous-time behavior of                     sampled-data systems are introduced, namely exact, approximate, and                     null controllability. It is shown that the two former notions never                     occur in sampled-data systems, while the latter notion is a generic                     property for these systems. Some facts regarding                     the fundamental input/output structure of sampled-data systems from the                      control viewpoint are drawn from these results. The spectrum                     distribution of sampled-data feedback systems is also characterized,                     and its connection to the controllability properties is pointed out.                     By way of contrast, the system-theoretic viewpoint adopted in this paper departs from the                      finite-dimensional state-space                     system approach which has been                     taken at the outset in the lifting framework, and in which the pure                     discrete-time state of the “stroboscopic” model is chosen as the                     state of the hybrid sampled-data systems. Such a choice for a                     minimal finite-dimensional state space is justified by the external                     (input/output) treatment of sampled-data systems. We stress the                     fact that this paper is situated entirely at the                      internal                     level and takes a closer look into the internal continuous-time dynamics of sampled-data systems.                  
Keywords
digital control, networked control systems, sampled-data systems, continuous-time periodic systems, reachability, controllability, spectrum distribution, intersampling behavior, 93B03, 93B05, 93B28, 47A10, 47B38, 