On the Maximum Quadratic Assignment Problem
Viswanath Nagarajan;Maxim Sviridenko;
Abstract
Quadratic assignment is a basic problem in combinatorial optimization that generalizes several other problems such as traveling salesman, linear arrangement, dense k subgraph, and clustering with given sizes. The input to the quadratic assignment problem consists of two n × n symmetric nonnegative matrices  and . Given matrices W, D, and a permutation , the objective function is . In this paper, we study the maximum quadratic assignment problem, where the goal is to find a permutation π that maximizes . We give an -approximation algorithm, which is the first nontrivial approximation guarantee for this problem. The above guarantee also holds when the matrices W, D are asymmetric. An indication of the hardness of maximum quadratic assignment is that it contains as a special case the dense k subgraph problem, for which the best-known approximation ratio is  (Feige et al. [Feige, U., G. Kortsarz, D. Peleg. 2001. The dense k-subgraph problem. Algorithmica29(3) 410–421]).When one of the matrices W, D satisfies triangle inequality, we obtain a -approximation algorithm. This improves over the previously best-known approximation guarantee of four (Arkin et al. [Arkin, E. M., R. Hassin, M. Sviridenko. 2001. Approximating the maximum quadratic assignment problem. Inform. Processing Lett.77 13–16]) for this special case of maximum quadratic assignment.The performance guarantee for maximum quadratic assignment with triangle inequality can be proved relative to an optimal solution of a natural linear programming relaxation that has been used earlier in branch-and-bound approaches (see, eg., Adams and Johnson [Adams, W. P., T. A. Johnson. 1994. Improved linear programming-based lower bounds for the quadratic assignment problem. DIMACS Ser. Discrete Math. Theoret. Comput. Sci.16 43–77]). It can also be shown that this linear program (LP) has an integrality gap of  for general maximum quadratic assignment.
Keywords
approximation algorithms linear programming relaxation 