Limited Memory Space Dilation and Reduction Algorithms
Hanif D. Sherali;Gyunghyun Choi;Zafar Ansari;
Abstract
In this paper, we present variants of Shor and Zhurbenko's r-algorithm, motivated by the memoryless and limited memory updates for differentiable quasi-Newton methods. This well known r-algorithm, which employs a space dilation strategy in the direction of the difference between two successive subgradients, is recognized as being one of the most effective procedures for solving nondifferentiable optimization problems. However, the method needs to store the space dilation matrix and update it at every iteration, resulting in a substantial computational burden for large-sized problems. To circumvent this difficulty, we first propose a memoryless update scheme, which under a suitable choice of parameters, yields a direction of motion that turns out to be a convex combination of two successive anti-subgradients. Moreover, in the space transformation sense, the new update scheme can be viewed as a combination of space dilation and reduction operations. We prove convergence of this new method, and demonstrate how it can be used in conjunction with a variable target value method that allows a practical, convergent implementation of the method. We also examine a memoryless variant that uses a fixed dilation parameter instead of varying degrees of dilation and/or reduction as in the former algorithm, as well as another variant that examines a two-step limited memory update. These variants are tested along with Shor's r-algorithm and also a modified version of a related algorithm due to Polyak that employs a projection onto a pair of Kelley's cutting planes. We use a set of standard test problems from the literature as well as randomly generated dual transportation and assignment problems in our computational experiments. The results exhibit that the proposed space dilation and reduction method and the modification of Polyak's method are competitive, and offer a substantial advantage over the r-algorithm and over the other tested limited memory variants with respect to accuracy as well as effort.
Keywords
nondifferentiable optimization  subgradient algorithm  space dilation operator  memoryless update  limited memory update  variable target value method  