Control of Polling in Presence of Vacations in Heavy Traffic with Applications to Satellite and Mobile Radio Systems
Eitan  Altman and Harold J.  Kushner;
Abstract
Consider a queueing system with many queues, each with its own input stream, but with only one server. The server must allocate its time among the queues to minimize or nearly minimize some cost criterion. The allocation of time among the queues is often called polling and is the subject of a large literature. Usually, it is assumed that the queues are always available, and the server can allocate at will. We consider the case where the queues are not always available due to disruption of the connection between them and the server. Such occurrences are common in wireless communications, where any of the mobile sources might become unavailable to the server from time to time due to obstacles, atmospheric or other effects. The possibility of such ``vacations' complicates the polling problem enormously. Due to the complexity of the basic problem we analyze it in the heavy traffic regime where the server has little idle time over the average requirements. It is shown that the suitable scaled total workloads converge to a controlled limit diffusion process with jumps. The jumps are due to the effects of the vacations. The control enters the dynamics only via its value just before a vacation begins; hence it is only via the jump value that the control affects the dynamics. This type of model has not received much attention. The individual queued workloads and job numbers can be recovered (asymptotically) from the limit scaled workload. This state space collapse is critical for the effective numerical and analytical work, since the limit process is one dimensional. It is also shown, under appropriate conditions, that the arrival process during a vacation can be approximated by the scaled "fluid" process. With a suitable nonlinear discounted cost rate, it is shown that the optimal costs for the physical problems converge to that for the limit problem as the traffic intensity approaches its heavy traffic limit. Explicit solutions are obtained in some simple but important cases, and the $c\mu$-rule is asymptotically optimal if there are no vacations. The stability of the queues is analyzed via a perturbed Liapunov function method, under quite general conditions on the data. Finally, we extend the results to unreliable channels where the data might be received with errors and need to be retransmitted.
Keywords
heavy traffic analysis, queueing networks, scheduling queues, communication networks, wireless communications, mobile communications, polling, optimal stochastic control, 90B22, 60K25, 60K30, 60F17, 93E20, 93E25, 