Confidence-based reliability assessment considering limited numbers of both input and output test data
Min-Yeong Moon;Hyunkyoo Cho;K. K. Choi;Nicholas Gaul;David Lamb;David Gorsich;
Abstract
Simulation-based methods can be used for accurate uncertainty quantification and prediction of the reliability of a physical system under the following assumptions: (1) accurate input distribution models and (2) accurate simulation models (including accurate surrogate models if utilized). However, in practical engineering applications, often only limited numbers of input test data are available for modeling input distribution models. Thus, estimated input distribution models are uncertain. In addition, the simulation model could be biased due to assumptions and idealizations used in the modeling process. Furthermore, only a limited number of physical output test data is available in the practical engineering applications. As a result, target output distributions, against which the simulation model can be validated, are uncertain and the corresponding reliabilities become uncertain as well. To assess the conservative reliability of the product properly under the uncertainties due to limited numbers of both input and output test data and a biased simulation model, a confidence-based reliability assessment method is developed in this paper. In the developed method, a hierarchical Bayesian model is formulated to obtain the uncertainty distribution of reliability. Then, we can specify a target confidence level. The reliability value at the target confidence level using the uncertainty distribution of reliability is the confidence-based reliability, which is the confidence-based estimation of the true reliability. It has been numerically demonstrated that the proposed method can predict the reliability of a physical system that satisfies the user-specified target confidence level, using limited numbers of input and output test data.
Keywords
Biased simulation model  Confidence-based reliability assessment  Limited numbers of input and output test data  Uncertain input distribution models  Uncertain reliability  