Stochastic optimization methods for ship resistance and operational efficiency via CFD
Matteo Diez;Emilio F. Campana;Frederick Stern;
Abstract
Hull-form stochastic optimization methods are presented and evaluated for resistance reduction and operational efficiency (operability), addressing stochastic sea state and operations. The cost/benefit analysis of the optimization procedure is presented by comparison of four hierarchical problems, from stochastic most general to deterministic least general. The parent hull is a high-speed catamaran, with geometrical constraints for maximum variation of length, beam, draft, and displacement. Problem 1 is used as a benchmark for the evaluation of the other problem formulations and is defined as a multi-objective stochastic optimization for resistance and operability, considering stochastic sea state and speed, but limited to head waves. Problem 2 is a multi-objective stochastic optimization for resistance and motions at fixed sea state and speed. Problem 3 is a multi-objective deterministic optimization for resistance and motions using a single regular wave at fixed speed. Problem 4 is a single-objective deterministic optimization for calm-water resistance at fixed speed. The design optimization is based on hull-form modifications by the Karhunen-Loève expansion of a free-form deformation, URANS-based CFD simulations, regular wave approximations for irregular waves, metamodels and multi-objective particle swarm. The design optimization achieves an 8.7, 23, 53, and 10% average improvements for problems 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. Comparing to problem 1, problem 2, 3, 4 optimized designs have average performances 1, 2.1 and 1.7% worse, respectively. The most efficient problem, from the computational cost/benefit viewpoint, is problem 3. Nevertheless, problem 1 is needed to evaluate and compare the stochastic performance of the designs and finally assess the optimization cost/benefit.
Keywords
Hydrodynamic optimization  Reliability-based robust design optimization  Uncertainty quantification  Resistance  Operability (operational efficiency)  URANS (unsteady Reynolds-averaged Navier-Stokes)  