A robust and informative method for solving large-scale power flow problems
Walter Murray;Tomás Tinoco De Rubira;Adam Wigington;
Abstract
Solving power flow problems is essential for the reliable and efficient operation of an electric power network. However, current software for solving these problems have questionable robustness due to the limitations of the solution methods used. These methods are typically based on the Newton–Raphson method combined with switching heuristics for handling generator reactive power limits and voltage regulation. Among the limitations are the requirement of a good initial solution estimate, the inability to handle near rank-deficient Jacobian matrices, and the convergence issues that may arise due to conflicts between the switching heuristics and the Newton–Raphson process. These limitations are addressed by reformulating the power flow problem and using robust optimization techniques. In particular, the problem is formulated as a constrained optimization problem in which the objective function incorporates prior knowledge about power flow solutions, and solved using an augmented Lagrangian algorithm. The prior information included in the objective adds convexity to the problem, guiding iterates towards physically meaningful solutions, and helps the algorithm handle near rank-deficient Jacobian matrices as well as poor initial solution estimates. To eliminate the negative effects of using switching heuristics, generator reactive power limits and voltage regulation are modeled with complementarity constraints, and these are handled using smooth approximations of the Fischer–Burmeister function. Furthermore, when no solution exists, the new method is able to provide sensitivity information that aids an operator on how best to alter the system. The proposed method has been extensively tested on real power flow networks of up to 58k buses.
Keywords
Power flow  Load flow  Augmented Lagrangian  Newton–Raphson  Robust  Complementarity constraints  