Computational complexity of inner and outerj-radii of polytopes in finite-dimensional normed spaces
Peter Gritzmann;Victor Klee;
Abstract
This paper studies the complexity of computing (or approximating, or bounding) the various inner and outer radii of ann-dimensional convex polytope in the space ∝ n  equipped with an ℓ p  norm or a polytopal norm. The polytopeP is assumed to be presented as the convex hull of finitely many points with rational coordinates (V-presented) or as the intersection of finitely many closed halfspaces defined by linear inequalities with rational coefficients (ℋ-presented). The innerj-radius ofP is the radius of a largestj-ball contained inP; it isP's inradius whenj = n and half ofP's diameter whenj = 1. The outerj-radius measures how wellP can be approximated, in a minimax sense, by an (n — j)-flat; it isP's circumradius whenj = n and half ofP's width whenj = 1. The binary (Turing machine) model of computation is employed. The primary concern is not with finding optimal algorithms, but with establishing polynomial-time computability or NP-hardness. Special attention is paid to the case in whichP is centrally symmetric. When the dimensionn is permitted to vary, the situation is roughly as follows: (a) for general ℋ-presented polytopes in ℓ p  spaces with 1<p<∞, all outer radius computations are NP-hard; (b) in the remaining cases (including symmetric ℋ-presented polytopes), some radius computations can be accomplished in polynomial time and others are NP-hard. These results are obtained by using a variety of tools from the geometry of convex bodies, from linear and nonlinear programming, and from the theory of computational complexity. Applications of the results to various problems in mathematical programming, computer science and other fields are included.
Keywords
90C30  68Q15  52A25  90C05  90C20  90C25  11J72  11J81  Computational convexity  computational complexity  polynomial-time algorithms  NP-hardness  mathematical programming  computational geometry  ellipsoid method  linear programming  sensitivity analysis  quadratic programming  robotics  convex body  polarity  polytope  convex hull  breadth  width  diameter  radius  insphere  circumsphere  