Randomized Solutions to Convex Programs with Multiple Chance Constraints
Georg  Schildbach, Lorenzo  Fagiano, and Manfred  Morari;
Abstract
The scenario-based optimization approach (``scenario approach'') provides an intuitive way of approximating the solution to chance-constrained optimization programs, based on finding the optimal solution under a finite number of sampled outcomes of the uncertainty (``scenarios''). A key merit of this approach is that it neither requires explicit knowledge of the uncertainty set, as in robust optimization, nor of its probability distribution, as in stochastic optimization. The scenario approach is also computationally efficient because it only requires the solution to a convex optimization program, even if the original chance-constrained problem is nonconvex. Recent research has obtained a rigorous foundation for the scenario approach, by establishing a direct link between the number of scenarios and bounds on the constraint violation probability. These bounds are tight in the general case of an uncertain optimization problem with a single chance constraint. This paper shows that the bounds can be improved in situations where the chance constraints have a limited “support rank,” meaning that they leave a linear subspace unconstrained. Moreover, it shows that also a combination of multiple chance constraints, each with individual probability level, is admissible. As a consequence of these results, the number of scenarios can be reduced from that prescribed by the existing theory for problems with the indicated structural property. This leads to an improvement in the objective value and a reduction in the computational complexity of the scenario approach. The proposed extensions have many practical applications, in particular, high-dimensional problems such as multistage uncertain decision problems or design problems of large-scale systems.
Keywords
uncertain optimization, chance constraints, randomized algorithms, convex optimization, scenario approach, multistage decision problems, 90C25, 90C15, 90C34, 68W20, 