Special Pair of Dual Parametric Nonlinear Optimization Problems with Common Set of Optimal Points
 F.   Nožička ;
Abstract
 On the base of a given strictly convex function defined on the Euclidean space E n ( n S 2) we can-without the assumption that it is differentiable - introduce some manifolds in topologic sense. Such manifolds are sets of all optimal points of a certain parametric non-linear optimization problem. This paper presents above all certain generalization of some results of [F. No − i ) ka and L. Grygarová (1991). Some topological questions connected with strictly convex functions. Optimization , 22 , 177-191. Akademie Verlag, Berlin] and [L. Grygarová (1988). Über Lösungsmengen spezieller konvexer parametrischer Optimierungsaufgaben . Optimization 19 , 215-228. Akademie Verlag Berlin], under less strict assumptions. The main results are presented in Sections 3 and 4, in Section 3 the geometrical characterization of the set of optimal points of a certain parametric minimization problem is presented; in Section 4 we study a maximization non-linear parametric problem assigned to it. It seems that it is a certain pair of parametric optimization problems with the same set of their optimal points, so that this pair of problems can be denoted as a pair of dual parametric non-linear optimization problems. This paper presents, most of all in Section 2, a number of interesting geometric facts about strictly convex functions. From the point of view of non-smooth analysis the present article is a certain complement to Chapter 4.3 of the book [B. Bank, J. Guddat, D. Klatte, B. Kummer and K. Tammer (1982). Nonlinear Parametric Optimization . Akademie Verlag, Berlin] where a convex parametric minimization problem is considered under more general and stronger conditions (but without any assumptions concerning strict convexity and without geometrical aspects). 
Keywords
Strictly Convex Function, Characteristic Cone Of Convex Set And Polar Cone, Supporting Hyperplane, Nonlinear Parametric Optimization Problem, Pair Of Dual Optimization Problems 