An efficient procedure for structural reliability-based robust design optimization
Renato de S. Motta;Silvana M. B. Afonso;
Abstract
This paper focuses on the development of an optimization tool with the aim to obtain robust and reliable designs in short computational time. The robustness measures considered here are the expected value and standard deviation of the performance function involved in the optimization problem. When using these robustness measures combined, the search of optimal design appears as a robust multiobjective optimization (RMO) problem. Reliable design addresses uncertainties to restrict the structural probability of failure. The mathematical formulation for the reliability based robust design optimization (RBRDO) problem is obtained by adding a reliability based constraint into the RMO problem. As both, statistics calculations and the reliability analysis could be very costly, approximation technique based on reduced-order modeling (ROM) is also incorporated in our procedure. The selected ROM is the proper orthogonal decomposition (POD) method, with the aim to produce fast outputs considering structural non-linear behavior. Moreover, to obtain RBRDO designs with reduced CPU time we propose others developments to be added in the integrated tool. They are: Probabilistic Collocation Method (PCM) to evaluate the statistics of the structural responses and, also, an approximated reliability constraints procedure based on the Performance Measure Approach (PMA) for reliability constraint assessment. Finally, Normal-Boundary Intersection (NBI) or Normalized Normal-Constraint (NNC) multiobjective optimization techniques are employed to obtain fast and even spread Pareto robust designs. To illustrate the application of the proposed tool, optimization studies are conducted for a linear (benchmark) and nonlinear trusses problems. The nonlinear example consider different loads level, exploring the material plasticity. The integrated tool prove to be very effective reducing the computational time by up to five orders of magnitude, when compared to the solutions obtained via classical standard approaches.
Keywords
Robust optimization  Probabilistic collocation method  Reliability-based robust design optimization  Multiobjective optimization  Reduced-order modelling  Proper orthogonal decomposition  